README.md, before:

# Machine Learning Book Club reading of VMLS
> It's a club, not a class!

## Contents
- [zach_notes_chapter_1.pdf](./zach_notes_chapter_1.pdf) is a nice visual reference for chapter 1 vocabulary and concepts.
- [chapter_1_exercises.md](./chapter_1_exercises.md) contains our collaborative solutions/discussion for the chapter exercises.
- [ryan_chapter_1_notes.md](./ryan_chapter_1_notes.md) contains text reference notes and some examples.

## Notation Conventions
- The VMLS book uses the following notation conventions:
    - lower-case letters for vector variables.
    - Greek letters for number variables (scalars). See https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greek_alphabet for reference.
- Other resources might use a bold font for vector variables
- Some other texts specify vectors by writing arrows above the variable name.
- There is no one standard notation, sadly.

## Python Guides
- https://ses.library.usyd.edu.au/handle/2123/21370
- [chapter_1_python_companion.ipynb](./chapter_1_python_companion.ipynb) is a numpy intro to chapter 1.

## Fundamental Properties of Vectors
- Vector addition is _commutative_, meaning a + b = b + a
- Vector addition is associative (a + b) + = a + (b + c)
- `a + 0 = 0 + a = a`. Adding the zero vector has no effect.
- `a - a = 0`. Subtracting a vector from itself yields zero.
- Scalar multiplication is commutative. `3 * a = a * 3.`
- Scalar multiplication is associative. If a is a vector then `(3*4)*a = 3(4 * a)`
- Left distributive property of scalar-vector multiplication is `(3 + 4) * a = 3a + 4a`
- Inner products have the following properties:
    - Commutative property `a.dot(b) = b.dot(a)`
    - Associativity with scalar multiplication `(3a).dot(b) = 3(a.dot(b))`
    - Distributivity with vector addition `(a + b).dot(c) = a.dot(c) + b.dot(c)`

## Now We Know (CAUTION)
- Don't confuse math notation with programming syntax!
- Our vector notation in math is `a = (1, 2, 3)` or `b = (4.2, 10, -11, 17.2)`.
- Vectors index from 1 and not zero (like many programming languages)
- The math notation `(a, b)` means a _stacked vector_ of `a` and `b`. A _stacked vector_ means a one dimensional vector that is the elements of `a` followed by the elements of `b`. If `a = (1,2)` and `b = (3, 4)` then the notation `(a, b)` means the vector `(1, 2, 3, 4)`.
- Two vectors are said to be equal if they are of the same size and and each of the corresponding entries is the same (at each index).
- We cannot add, subtract, or take the dot-product of vectors of differing lengths. It's not valid.
- Subvector notation is inclusive of the beginning and ending index (unlike some programming languages).

## Resources:
- http://vmls-book.stanford.edu/ is the full text of the VMLS book.
- https://www.3blue1brown.com/essence-of-linear-algebra-page is a wonderful video series that goes into the esssence of linear algebra. 
- Here is [a hack for showing LaTeX formulas in GitHub markdown](https://gist.github.com/a-rodin/fef3f543412d6e1ec5b6cf55bf197d7b).

Commit message:

add python companion to the list of contents

README.md, after:

# Machine Learning Book Club reading of VMLS
> It's a club, not a class!

## Contents
- [zach_notes_chapter_1.pdf](./zach_notes_chapter_1.pdf) is a nice visual reference for chapter 1 vocabulary and concepts.
- [chapter_1_exercises.md](./chapter_1_exercises.md) contains our collaborative solutions/discussion for the chapter exercises.
- [ryan_chapter_1_notes.md](./ryan_chapter_1_notes.md) contains text reference notes and some examples.
- [chapter_1_python_companion.ipynb](./chapter_1_python_companion.ipynb) is Python/numpy code that implements concepts in the chapter.

## Notation Conventions
- The VMLS book uses the following notation conventions:
    - lower-case letters for vector variables.
    - Greek letters for number variables (scalars). See https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greek_alphabet for reference.
- Other resources might use a bold font for vector variables
- Some other texts specify vectors by writing arrows above the variable name.
- There is no one standard notation, sadly.

## Python Guides
- https://ses.library.usyd.edu.au/handle/2123/21370
- [chapter_1_python_companion.ipynb](./chapter_1_python_companion.ipynb) is a numpy intro to chapter 1.

## Fundamental Properties of Vectors
- Vector addition is _commutative_, meaning a + b = b + a
- Vector addition is associative (a + b) + = a + (b + c)
- `a + 0 = 0 + a = a`. Adding the zero vector has no effect.
- `a - a = 0`. Subtracting a vector from itself yields zero.
- Scalar multiplication is commutative. `3 * a = a * 3.`
- Scalar multiplication is associative. If a is a vector then `(3*4)*a = 3(4 * a)`
- Left distributive property of scalar-vector multiplication is `(3 + 4) * a = 3a + 4a`
- Inner products have the following properties:
    - Commutative property `a.dot(b) = b.dot(a)`
    - Associativity with scalar multiplication `(3a).dot(b) = 3(a.dot(b))`
    - Distributivity with vector addition `(a + b).dot(c) = a.dot(c) + b.dot(c)`

## Now We Know (CAUTION)
- Don't confuse math notation with programming syntax!
- Our vector notation in math is `a = (1, 2, 3)` or `b = (4.2, 10, -11, 17.2)`.
- Vectors index from 1 and not zero (like many programming languages)
- The math notation `(a, b)` means a _stacked vector_ of `a` and `b`. A _stacked vector_ means a one dimensional vector that is the elements of `a` followed by the elements of `b`. If `a = (1,2)` and `b = (3, 4)` then the notation `(a, b)` means the vector `(1, 2, 3, 4)`.
- Two vectors are said to be equal if they are of the same size and and each of the corresponding entries is the same (at each index).
- We cannot add, subtract, or take the dot-product of vectors of differing lengths. It's not valid.
- Subvector notation is inclusive of the beginning and ending index (unlike some programming languages).

## Resources:
- http://vmls-book.stanford.edu/ is the full text of the VMLS book.
- https://www.3blue1brown.com/essence-of-linear-algebra-page is a wonderful video series that goes into the esssence of linear algebra. 
- Here is [a hack for showing LaTeX formulas in GitHub markdown](https://gist.github.com/a-rodin/fef3f543412d6e1ec5b6cf55bf197d7b).
